\documentclass[thesis.tex]{subfiles}

\begin{document}

\chapter{Compute Resource Adaptation}
\label{cha:comp-reso-adapt}

In this chapter, we focus on swarm applications with computation-heavy tasks,
such as machine learning (ML) inference. To create an engaging user experience,
these applications need to offer bounded response times (e.g., 100 ms or
sub-second). However, end devices are often not powerful enough to run an
algorithm as is. While applications can offload computation to other resources
such as the edge or the cloud, swarm platforms have a large discrepancy of
computing capabilities. In addition, the edge/cloud faces the challenge of
unpredictable network delays and service overload. To meet the response time
requirement, we propose to adapt the computation to each platform in specific
contexts.

Swarm applications can adapt, because to achieve the same task, there are often
more than one options: different algorithms or different parameters for the same
algorithm. These options result in different processing times and application
accuracy. If we can build a performance model that characterizes the impact of
each option, the application can choose the right algorithm/parameter adaptively
depending on the available compute power and the deadline.

Building this performance model for adaptation is more challenging than the
profiling discussed in \autoref{cha:netw-reso-adapt}, because of two issues:
$(i)$ a much larger parameter space means that exhaustive search, even with
parallelism, is not feasible; $(ii)$ the profile is platform-dependent because
processing times vary across devices.

This chapter is step further in refining our profiling techniques. Specifically,
we address the issue with a large parameter space by employing Bayesian
Optimization (BO), and we address the heterogeneous capabilities with profile
transfer. This chapter empirically validates our approach using Viola-Jones face
detector as the primary case study.

\input{brt/intro}
\input{brt/motivation}
\input{brt/modeling}
\input{brt/limitations}
\input{brt/conclusion}

\end{document}

%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: t
%%% End:
